Module: actors 
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2009-2015 The Regents of the University of California. All
rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

-- Jars --
Jar: antelope.jar
License: Custom

Copyright (c) 2004 by the Regents of the University of California.

Copyright (c) 2001 Boulder Real Time Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved

This software may be used freely in any way as long as the copyright statement above is not removed.

--
Jar: castor-0.9.5.jar
License: Custom

Copyright (c) 1999-2003  Intalio Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use of this software and associated documentation
("Software"), with or without modification, are permitted provided
that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain copyright statements
   and notices. Redistributions must also contain a copy of this
   document.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The name "ExoLab" must not be used to endorse or promote products
   derived from this Software without prior written permission of
   Intalio Inc. For written permission, please contact info@exolab.org.

4. Products derived from this Software may not be called "Castor"
   nor may "Castor" appear in their names without prior written
   permission of Intalio Inc. Exolab, Castor and Intalio are
   trademarks of Intalio Inc.

5. Due credit should be given to the ExoLab Project
   (http://www.exolab.org/).

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INTALIO AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTALIO OR ITS
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--
Jar: commons-httpclient-3.0.1.jar
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 1999-2006 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

--
Jar: GeoVista-PCPVis.jar
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 2002 GeoVISTA Center

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

--
Jar: gt1.jar
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 2002 The Centre for Computational Geography 

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

--
Jar: jargon-2.0.5.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2005 Regents of the University of California

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * Neither the name of the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--
Jar: JAXWS-http-2.2.jar
License: CDDL

Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.

For License Terms See: https://glassfish.dev.java.net/public/CDDL+GPL.html

--
Jar: jts-1.4.0.jar
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 2001 Vivid Solutions

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

--
Jar: mail-1.4.5.jar
License: CDDL 1.0

Copyright (c) 1997-2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

For License Terms See: https://glassfish.dev.java.net/public/CDDL+GPL.html

--
Jar: opal-ws-2.0.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2005-2008 The Regents of the University of California.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
includes software developed by the San Diego Supercomputer Center
, the National Biomedical Computation Resource, and their contributors.

4. Neither the names of the Centers nor the names of the contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


--
Jar: qaqc.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2004 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Jar: wmsd.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2004 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Jar: wsdl4j.jar
License: Common Public License 1.0
  
Copyright (c) 2005 International Business Machines, Inc.
  
THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS COMMON
PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF
THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and
documentation distributed under this Agreement, and

b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

i) changes to the Program, and

ii) additions to the Program;

where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and
are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution
'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such
Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf.
Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are
separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the
Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative
works of the Program.

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor
which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution
alone or when combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this
Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this
Agreement, including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright
license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display,
publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such
Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and
object code form.

b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell,
import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if
any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall
apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at
the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition
of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the
Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other
combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is
licensed hereunder.

c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the
licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are
provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the
patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each
Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by
any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses
granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility
to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For
example, if a third party patent license is required to allow
Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility
to acquire that license before distributing the Program.

d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright
license set forth in this Agreement.

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form
under its own license agreement, provided that:

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

b) its license agreement:

i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties
and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or
conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or
conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;

ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability
for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and
consequential damages, such as lost profits;

iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are
offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable
manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the
Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained
within the Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its
Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent
Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain
responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the
like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use
of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a
commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not
create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a
Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering,
such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend
and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor")
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising
from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party
against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts
or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its
distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The
obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement.
In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly
notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b)
allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the
Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement
negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such
claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial
product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial
Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance
claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance
claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to
defend claims against the other Contributors related to those
performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other
Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor
must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY
OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its
exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to
the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and
unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR
ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED
HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further
action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the
minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with
respect to a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that
Contributor to such Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as
of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, if Recipient
institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program
itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or
hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's
rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such
litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it
fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this
Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of
time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's
rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use
and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable.
However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses
granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and
survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement,
but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and
may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward
reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of
this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement
Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. IBM is the initial
Agreement Steward. IBM may assign the responsibility to serve as the
Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of
the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The
Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to
the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition,
after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may
elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under
the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b)
above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual
property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly,
by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not
expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and
the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No
party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement
more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives
its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.

--  
cipres/

--
Jar: CipresKeplerRegistry.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.


--
Jar: cipres_framework.jar
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Jar: forester.jar 
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2006 Ethalinda Cannon
Copyright (c) 2006 University of Minnesota 
Copyright (c) 2006 Christian Zmasek
Copyright (c) 2006 Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation
Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Washington University School of Medicine and 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 o Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 
 o Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 
 o Neither name of Washington University School of Medicine/Howard Hughes
   Medical Institute nor the names of its contributors may be used to
   endorse or promote products derived from this software without
   specific prior written permission. 
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


--
Jar: jacorb.jar
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 1997-2005 Gerald Brose, Freie Universitaet Berlin/XTRADYNE Technologies AG, Germany.

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

jwsdp/                   
Jar: FastInfoset.jar, jaxrpc-impl.jar, jaxrpc-spi.jar, jsr173_api.jar,
	 saaj-impl.jar, soapprocessor.jar, xmldsig.jar, xmlsec.jar,
	 xws-saml.jar, xws-security.jar, xws-security_jaxrpc.jar
License: WSDP 1.5

Copyright (c) 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.

JAVA WEB SERVICES DEVELOPER PACK, VERSION 1.5 Sun Microsystems Inc.
Software License Agreement


SUN IS WILLING TO LICENSE THE ACCOMPANYING BINARY SOFTWARE IN MACHINE-
READABLE FORM, TOGETHER WITH ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION (COLLECTIVELY
"SOFTWARE") TO YOU ONLY UPON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE
TERMS AND CONDITION CONTAINED IN THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT. READ
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY
BEFORE OPENING THE SOFTWARE MEDIA PACKAGE. BY OPENING THE SOFTWARE
MEDIA PACKAGE, YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE
AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE
YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS BY SELECTING THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE
END OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL
THESE TERMS, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED SOFTWARE TO YOUR PLACE OF
PURCHASE FOR A REFUND OR, IF THE SOFTWARE IS ACCESSED ELECTRONICALLY,
SELECT THE "DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE
AGREEMENT .

LICENSE TO EVALUATE EA SOFTWARE: The Binary Code License Agreement
("BCL") and the Evaluation Terms ("Evaluation Terms") below shall
apply to the portions of the Software identified as Early Access in
the Software's Release Notes. The BCL and the Evaluation Terms shall
collectively be referred to as the Evaluation Agreement ("Evaluation
Agreement").

LICENSE TO USE FCS SOFTWARE: The BCL and the Supplemental Terms
("Supplemental Terms") provided following the BCL shall apply to
portions of the Software identified as FCS Software in the Software's
Release Notes. BCL and the Supplemental Terms shall collectively be
referred to as the Agreement ("Agreement").


EVALUATION TERMS

The terms of the Evaluation Agreement shall apply to portions of
Software identified as Early Access in the Software's Release Notes
("Software"). These Evaluation Terms add to or modify the terms of the
BCL. Capitalized terms not defined in these Evaluation Terms shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them in the BCL. These Evaluation
Terms shall supersede any inconsistent or conflicting terms in the BCL
below, or in any license contained within the Software.

I. LICENSE TO EVALUATE. Sun grants to you, a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, royalty-free and limited license to use one (1) copy
of the Software internally for the purposes of evaluation only for one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date you download the Software
from Sun ("Evaluation Period"). No license is granted to you for any
other purpose. You may not sell, rent, loan or otherwise encumber or
transfer the Software in whole or in part, to any third party.
Licensee shall have no right to use the Software for productive or
commercial use.

II. DUTIES. You agree to evaluate and test the Software for use in
your software environment and provide feedback to Sun in a manner
reasonably requested by Sun. Any and all test results, error data,
reports or other information, feedback or materials made or provided
by you relating to Software (collectively, "Feedback") is the
exclusive property of Sun and you hereby assigns all Feedback to Sun
at no cost to Sun. Sun may use such Feedback in any manner and for any
purpose, without limitation, liability or obligation to you.

III. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. For purposes of the Evaluation
Agreement, "Confidential Information" means:  (i) business and
technical information and any source code or binary code, which Sun
discloses to Licensee related to Software; (ii) Licensee's feedback
based on Software; and (iii) the terms, conditions, and existence of
this Agreement.  Licensee may not disclose or use Confidential
Information, except for the purposes specified in this Agreement.  You
will protect the Confidential Information with the same degree of
care, but not less than a reasonable degree of care, as Licensee uses
to protect its own Confidential Information. You must restrict access
to Confidential Information to your employees or contractors with a
need for access to perform their employment or contractual obligations
and who have agreed in writing to be bound by a confidentiality
obligation, which incorporates the protections and restrictions
substantially as set forth in this Agreement. Your obligations
regarding Confidential Information will expire no less than five (5)
years from the date of receipt of the Confidential Information, except
for Sun source code which will be protected in perpetuity.  You agree
that Software contains Sun trade secrets. Notwithstanding any
provisions contained in this Agreement concerning nondisclosure and
non-use of the Confidential Information, the nondisclosure obligations
of this section will not apply to any portion of Confidential
Information that you can demonstrate in writing is:  (i) now, or
hereafter through no act or failure to act on the part of you becomes,
generally known to the public; (ii) known to you at the time of
receiving the Confidential Information without an obligation of
confidentiality; (iii) hereafter rightfully furnished to you by a
third party without restriction on disclosure; or (iv) independently
developed by you without any use ofthe Confidential Information.

IV. TERMINATION AND/OR EXPIRATION. Upon expiration of the Evaluation
Period, unless terminated earlier by Sun, you agree to immediately
cease use of and destroy Software.  Either party may terminate this
Evaluation Agreement upon ten (10) days' written notice to the other
party. However, Sun may terminate this Evaluation Agreement
immediately should any Software become, or in Sun's opinion be likely
to become, the subject of a claim of infringement of a patent, trade
secret or copyright. Sun may terminate this Evaluation Agreement
immediately should you materially breach any of its provisions or take
any action in derogation of Sun's rights to the Confidential
Information licensed to you. Upon termination or expiration of this
Evaluation Agreement, you will immediately cease use of and destroy
Software, any copies thereof and provide to Sun? a written statement
certifying that you have complied with the foregoing obligations.
Rights and obligations under this Evaluation Agreement which by their
nature should survive, will remain in effect after termination or
expiration hereof.

V. NO SUPPORT. Sun is under no obligation to support Software or to
provide upgrades or error corrections ("Software Updates") to the
Software. If Sun, at its sole option, supplies Software Updates to
you, the Software Updates will be considered part of Software, and
subject to the terms of this Agreement.

VI. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Licensee acknowledges that the Software
may be experimental and that the Software may have defects or
deficiencies, which cannot or will not be corrected by Sun.  Licensee
will hold Sun harmless from any claims based on Licensee's use of the
Software for any purposes other than those of internal evaluation, and
from any claims that later versions or releases of any Software
furnished to Licensee are incompatible with the Software provided to
Licensee under this Agreement.

VII. NO SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS. The Supplemental Terms following the BCL
do not apply to the Evaluation Agreement. Portions of Software
identified as Early Access in the Software's Release Notes may not be
redistributed even if identified as Redistributable in the Software's
Release Notes.

VIII. Trademarks and Logos. You acknowledge and agree as between you
and Sun that Sun owns the SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and iPLANET
trademarks and all SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and
iPLANET-related trademarks, service marks, logos and other brand
designations ("Sun Marks"), and you agree to comply with the Sun
Trademark and Logo Usage Requirements currently located at
http://www.sun.com/policies/trademarks. Any use you make of the Sun
Marks inures to Sun's benefit.

IX. Source Code. Software may contain source code that is provided
solely for reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Source code may not be redistributed.

X. Third Party Licenses. Additional copyright notices and license
terms applicable to portions of the software are set forth in the
THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME file.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. Binary Code License Agreement

READ THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY PROVIDED SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE
TERMS (COLLECTIVELY "AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY BEFORE OPENING THE SOFTWARE
MEDIA PACKAGE. BY OPENING THE SOFTWARE MEDIA PACKAGE, YOU AGREE TO THE
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE
ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS BY SELECTING
THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE
TO ALL THESE TERMS, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED SOFTWARE TO YOUR PLACE
OF PURCHASE FOR A REFUND OR, IF THE SOFTWARE IS ACCESSED
ELECTRONICALLY, SELECT THE "DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS
AGREEMENT.

1. LICENSE TO USE. Sun grants you a non-exclusive and non-transferable
license for the internal use only of the accompanying software and
documentation and any error corrections provided by Sun (collectively
"Software"), by the number of users and the class of computer hardware
for which the corresponding fee has been paid.

2. RESTRICTIONS. Software is confidential and copyrighted. Title to
Software and all associated intellectual property rights is retained
by Sun and/or its licensors. Except as specifically authorized in any
Supplemental License Terms, you may not make copies of Software, other
than a single copy of Software for archival purposes. Unless
enforcement is prohibited by applicable law, you may not modify,
decompile, or reverse engineer Software. Licensee acknowledges that
Licensed Software is not designed or intended for use in the design,
construction, operation or maintenance of any nuclear facility. Sun
Microsystems, Inc. disclaims any express or implied warranty of
fitness for such uses.  No right, title or interest in or to any
trademark, service mark, logo or trade name of Sun or its licensors is
granted under this Agreement.

3.  LIMITED WARRANTY. Sun warrants to you that for a period of ninety
(90) days from the date of purchase, as evidenced by a copy of the
receipt, the media on which Software is furnished (if any) will be
free of defects in materials and workmanship under normal use. Except
for the foregoing, Software is provided "AS IS". Your exclusive remedy
and Sun's entire liability under this limited warranty will be at
Sun's option to replace Software media or refund the fee paid for
Software.

4. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. UNLESS SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT, ALL
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED, EXCEPT TO THE
EXTENT THAT THESE DISCLAIMERS ARE HELD TO BE LEGALLY INVALID.

5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO
EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT
OR DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF
LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. In no event will Sun's liability to you, whether in contract,
tort (including negligence), or otherwise, exceed the amount paid by
you for Software under this Agreement. The foregoing limitations will
apply even if the above stated warranty fails of its essential
purpose.

6. Termination. This Agreement is effective until terminated. You may
terminate this Agreement at any time by destroying all copies of
Software. This Agreement will terminate immediately without notice
from Sun if you fail to comply with any provision of this Agreement.
Upon Termination, you must destroy all copies of Software.

7.  Export Regulations. All Software and technical data delivered
under this Agreement are subject to US export control laws and may be
subject to export or import regulations in other countries. You agree
to comply strictly with all such laws and regulations and acknowledge
that you have the responsibility to obtain such licenses to export,
re-export, or import as may be required after delivery to you.

8. U.S. Government Restricted Rights. If Software is being acquired by
or on behalf of the U.S. Government or by a U.S. Government prime
contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), then the Government's
rights in Software and accompanying documentation will be only as set
forth in this Agreement; this is in accordance with 48 CFR 227.7201
through 227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense (DOD) acquisitions) and
with 48 CFR 2.101 and 12.212 (for non-DOD acquisitions).

9. Governing Law. Any action related to this Agreement will be
governed by California law and controlling U.S. federal law. No choice
of law rules of any jurisdiction will apply.

10. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable, this Agreement will remain in effect with the provision
omitted, unless omission would frustrate the intent of the parties, in
which case this Agreement will immediately terminate.

11. Integration. This Agreement is the entire agreement between you
and Sun relating to its subject matter. It supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals,
representations and warranties and prevails over any conflicting or
additional terms of any quote, order, acknowledgment, or other
communication between the parties relating to its subject matter
during the term of this Agreement. No modification of this Agreement
will be binding, unless in writing and signed by an authorized
representative of each party.

SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE TERMS

These supplemental license terms ("Supplemental Terms") add to or
modify the terms of the Binary Code License Agreement (collectively,
the "Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined in these Supplemental
Terms shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement.
These Supplemental Terms shall supersede any inconsistent or
conflicting terms in the Agreement, or in any license contained within
the Software.

A. Software Internal Use and Development License Grant. Subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but not limited to
Section C (Java Technology Restrictions) of these Supplemental Terms,
Sun grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license to
reproduce internally and use internally the binary form of the
Software complete and unmodified for the purposes of designing,
developing, testing, and running your Java applets and applications
intended to run on the Java platform ("Programs"), except for certain
files identified in the Software "Release Notes" file which may only
be used for the purposes of designing, developing, and testing
Programs.

B. License to Distribute Redistributables.  Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, including but not limited to Section C
(Java Technology Restrictions) of these Supplemental Terms, Sun grants
you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license to reproduce
and distribute those components specifically identified as
redistributable in the Software "Release Notes" file
("Redistributables") provided that: (i) you distribute the
Redistributables complete and unmodified (unless otherwise specified
in the applicable Release Notes file), and only bundled as part of
your Programs, (ii) you do not distribute additional software intended
to supersede any portion of the Redistributables, (iii) you do not
remove or alter any proprietary legends or notices contained in or on
the Redistributables, (iv) you only distribute the Redistributables
pursuant to a license agreement that protects Sun's interests
consistent with the terms contained in the Agreement, (v) you agree to
defend and indemnify Sun and its licensors from and against any
damages, costs, liabilities, settlement amounts and/or expenses
(including attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with any claim,
lawsuit or action by any third party that arises or results from the
use or distribution of any and all Programs and/or Software, and (vi)
if you distribute the Java Secure Socket Extension package, include
the following statement as part of product documentation (whether hard
copy or electronic), as a part of a copyright page or proprietary
rights notice page, in an "About" box or in any other form reasonably
designed to make the statement visible to users of the Software: "This
product includes code licensed from RSA Data Security".

C. Java Technology Restrictions. You may not modify the Java Platform
Interface ("JPI", identified as classes contained within the "java"
package or any subpackages of the "java" package), by creating
additional classes within the JPI or otherwise causing the addition to
or modification of the classes in the JPI.  In the event that you
create an additional class and associated API(s) which (i) extends the
functionality of the Java platform, and (ii) is exposed to third party
software developers for the purpose of developing additional software
which invokes such additional API, you must promptly publish broadly
an accurate specification for such API for free use by all developers.
You may not create, or authorize your licensees to create, additional
classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way identified as
"java", "javax", "sun" or similar convention as specified by Sun in
any naming convention designation.

D. Java Runtime Availability. Refer to the appropriate version of the
Java Runtime Environment binary code license (currently located at
http://www.java.sun.com/jdk/index.html) for the availability of
runtime code which may be distributed with Java applets and
applications.

E. Trademarks and Logos. You acknowledge and agree as between you and
Sun that Sun owns the SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and iPLANET
trademarks and all SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and
iPLANET-related trademarks, service marks, logos and other brand
designations ("Sun Marks"), and you agree to comply with the Sun
Trademark and Logo Usage Requirements currently located at
http://www.sun.com/policies/trademarks. Any use you make of the Sun
Marks inures to Sun's benefit.

F. Source Code. Software may contain source code that is provided
solely for reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Source code may not be redistributed unless expressly provided for in
this Agreement.

G. Third Party Licenses. Additional copyright notices and license
terms applicable to portions of the software are set forth in the
THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME file.

H. Termination for Infringement. Either party may terminate this
Agreement immediately should any Software become, or in either
party'sopinion be likely to become, the subject of a claim of
infringement of any intellectual property right.

For inquiries please contact: Sun Microsystems, Inc. 4150 Network
Circle, Santa Clara, California 95054.

--
Project: NetCDF Java Library
Files: netcdf-4.2.jar
From: http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf-java/documentation.htm
License: MIT

Copyright (c) 1993-2010 University Corporation for Atmospheric Research/Unidata

Portions of this software were developed by the Unidata Program at the
University Corporation for Atmospheric Research.

Access and use of this software shall impose the following obligations and
understandings on the user. The user is granted the right, without any fee or
cost, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute this software, and
any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation for any purpose
whatsoever, provided that this entire notice appears in all copies of the
software, derivative works and supporting documentation. Further, UCAR
requests that the user credit UCAR/Unidata in any publications that result
from the use of this software or in any product that includes this software,
although this is not an obligation. The names UCAR and/or Unidata, however,
may not be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any
products or commercial entity unless specific written permission is obtained
from UCAR/Unidata. The user also understands that UCAR/Unidata is not
obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting, training or
assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation and performance of
this software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new
versions or "bug fixes."

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY UCAR/UNIDATA "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
EVENT SHALL UCAR/UNIDATA BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

-- Jars --
Jar: groovy-all-2.1.1.jar
Contains ANTLR, ASM, CLI, JSR223, and Groovy

ANTLR

SOFTWARE RIGHTS

ANTLR 1989-2006 Developed by Terence Parr
Partially supported by University of San Francisco & jGuru.com

We reserve no legal rights to the ANTLR--it is fully in the
public domain. An individual or company may do whatever
they wish with source code distributed with ANTLR or the
code generated by ANTLR, including the incorporation of
ANTLR, or its output, into commerical software.

We encourage users to develop software with ANTLR. However,
we do ask that credit is given to us for developing
ANTLR. By "credit", we mean that if you use ANTLR or
incorporate any source code into one of your programs
(commercial product, research project, or otherwise) that
you acknowledge this fact somewhere in the documentation,
research report, etc... If you like ANTLR and have
developed a nice tool with the output, please mention that
you developed it using ANTLR. In addition, we ask that the
headers remain intact in our source code. As long as these
guidelines are kept, we expect to continue enhancing this
system and expect to make other tools available as they are
completed.

The primary ANTLR guy:

Terence Parr
parrt@cs.usfca.edu
parrt@antlr.org

-----

Jar: groovy-all-2.1.1.jar
ASM

/***
 * http://asm.objectweb.org/
 *
 * ASM: a very small and fast Java bytecode manipulation framework
 * Copyright (c) 2000-2005 INRIA, France Telecom
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
 *    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
 *    this software without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
 * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
 * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
 * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
 * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

-----

Jar: groovy-all-2.1.1.jar
CLI

                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

-----

Jar: groovy-all-2.1.1.jar
JSR223

The following notice applies to the files:

src/main/org/codehaus/groovy/jsr223/GroovyCompiledScript.java
src/main/org/codehaus/groovy/jsr223/GroovyScriptEngineFactory.java
src/main/org/codehaus/groovy/jsr223/GroovyScriptEngineImpl.java


/*
 * Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.  
 * Use is subject to license terms.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are 
 * permitted provided that the following conditions are met: Redistributions of source code 
 * must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of 
 * conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials 
 * provided with the distribution. Neither the name of the Sun Microsystems nor the names of 
 * is contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software 
 * without specific prior written permission. 

 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS
 * OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY 
 * AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER 
 * OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
 * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON 
 * ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
 * OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

-----

Jar: groovy-all-2.1.1.jar
Groovy

/*
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 *
 */

-----

Jar: bsh-2.1.8.jar
Beanshell2

                   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates
the terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public
License, supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

  0. Additional Definitions.

  As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU
General Public License.

  "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License,
other than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

  An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided
by the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library.
Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode
of using an interface provided by the Library.

  A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with the Library.  The particular version of the Library
with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked
Version".

  The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code
for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are
based on the Application, and not on the Linked Version.

  The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the
object code and/or source code for the Application, including any data
and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the
Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

  1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a
facility refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application
that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed when the
facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the modified
version:

   a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to
   ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the
   function or data, the facility still operates, and performs
   whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful, or

   b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of
   this License applicable to that copy.

  3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

  The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from
a header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such object
code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated
material is not limited to numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, or small macros, inline functions and templates
(ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
   Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

  4. Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that,
taken together, effectively do not restrict modification of the
portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications, if you also do each of
the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that
   the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

   c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during
   execution, include the copyright notice for the Library among
   these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the
   copies of the GNU GPL and this license document.

   d) Do one of the following:

       0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
       License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form
       suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to
       recombine or relink the Application with a modified version of
       the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in the
       manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying
       Corresponding Source.

       1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
       Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time
       a copy of the Library already present on the user's computer
       system, and (b) will operate properly with a modified version
       of the Library that is interface-compatible with the Linked
       Version.

   e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise
   be required to provide such information under section 6 of the
   GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information is
   necessary to install and execute a modified version of the
   Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
   Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If
   you use option 4d0, the Installation Information must accompany
   the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application
   Code. If you use option 4d1, you must provide the Installation
   Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL
   for conveying Corresponding Source.)

  5. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side by side in a single library together with other library
facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this
License, and convey such a combined library under terms of your
choice, if you do both of the following:

   a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based
   on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities,
   conveyed under the terms of this License.

   b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it
   is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
   accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Library as you received it specifies that a certain numbered version
of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version"
applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that published version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser
General Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide
whether future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall
apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is
permanent authorization for you to choose that version for the
Library.

-----

Jar: js-engine.jar
ScriptEngine for RhinoScript

Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this 
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 - Neither the name of the Sun Microsystems, Inc. nor the names of 
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
   software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND 
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF 
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGE.
