Module: common 
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2009-2015 The Regents of the University of California. All
rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

-- JARS -- 
Jar: xercesImpl-2.7.1.jar
License: Apache 1.1

The Apache Software License, Version 1.1


Copyright (c) 1999-2002 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights 
reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
   distribution.

3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,
   if any, must include the following acknowledgment:  
      "This product includes software developed by the
       Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."
   Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,
   if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.

4. The names "Xerces" and "Apache Software Foundation" must
   not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
   software without prior written permission. For written 
   permission, please contact apache@apache.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",
   nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written
   permission of the Apache Software Foundation.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR
ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.
====================================================================

This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation and was
originally based on software copyright (c) 1999, International
Business Machines, Inc., http://www.ibm.com.  For more
information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see
<http://www.apache.org/>.

--
Jar: jena-2.5.5.jar
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 2001-2010 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

--
Jar: commons-io-2.4.jar
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 2001-2010 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

--
Jar: commons-net-1.2.1.jar 
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 2001-2010 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

-- 
Jar: servlet.jar 
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 1999-2010 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

-- 
Jar: xalan.jar 
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 1999-2006 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

-- 
Jar: xml-apis.jar 
License: Apache 1.1

Copyright (c) 1999-2002 The Apache Software Foundation

The Apache Software License, Version 1.1

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights
reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if
any, must include the following acknowledgment: "This product includes
software developed by the Apache Software Foundation
(http://www.apache.org/)." Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear
in the software itself, if and wherever such third-party
acknowledgments normally appear.

4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must not be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
apache@apache.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache", nor
may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written permission of
the Apache Software Foundation.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


-- 
Jar: jaxb-api.jar, jaxb-xjc.jar, jaxb-impl.jar, jaxb-libs.jar, jaxrpc.jar
License: WSDP 1.5

Copyright (c) 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.

JAVA WEB SERVICES DEVELOPER PACK, VERSION 1.5 Sun Microsystems Inc.
Software License Agreement


SUN IS WILLING TO LICENSE THE ACCOMPANYING BINARY SOFTWARE IN MACHINE-
READABLE FORM, TOGETHER WITH ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION (COLLECTIVELY
"SOFTWARE") TO YOU ONLY UPON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE
TERMS AND CONDITION CONTAINED IN THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT. READ
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY
BEFORE OPENING THE SOFTWARE MEDIA PACKAGE. BY OPENING THE SOFTWARE
MEDIA PACKAGE, YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE
AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE
YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS BY SELECTING THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE
END OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL
THESE TERMS, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED SOFTWARE TO YOUR PLACE OF
PURCHASE FOR A REFUND OR, IF THE SOFTWARE IS ACCESSED ELECTRONICALLY,
SELECT THE "DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE
AGREEMENT .

LICENSE TO EVALUATE EA SOFTWARE: The Binary Code License Agreement
("BCL") and the Evaluation Terms ("Evaluation Terms") below shall
apply to the portions of the Software identified as Early Access in
the Software's Release Notes. The BCL and the Evaluation Terms shall
collectively be referred to as the Evaluation Agreement ("Evaluation
Agreement").

LICENSE TO USE FCS SOFTWARE: The BCL and the Supplemental Terms
("Supplemental Terms") provided following the BCL shall apply to
portions of the Software identified as FCS Software in the Software's
Release Notes. BCL and the Supplemental Terms shall collectively be
referred to as the Agreement ("Agreement").


EVALUATION TERMS

The terms of the Evaluation Agreement shall apply to portions of
Software identified as Early Access in the Software's Release Notes
("Software"). These Evaluation Terms add to or modify the terms of the
BCL. Capitalized terms not defined in these Evaluation Terms shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them in the BCL. These Evaluation
Terms shall supersede any inconsistent or conflicting terms in the BCL
below, or in any license contained within the Software.

I. LICENSE TO EVALUATE. Sun grants to you, a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, royalty-free and limited license to use one (1) copy
of the Software internally for the purposes of evaluation only for one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date you download the Software
from Sun ("Evaluation Period"). No license is granted to you for any
other purpose. You may not sell, rent, loan or otherwise encumber or
transfer the Software in whole or in part, to any third party.
Licensee shall have no right to use the Software for productive or
commercial use.

II. DUTIES. You agree to evaluate and test the Software for use in
your software environment and provide feedback to Sun in a manner
reasonably requested by Sun. Any and all test results, error data,
reports or other information, feedback or materials made or provided
by you relating to Software (collectively, "Feedback") is the
exclusive property of Sun and you hereby assigns all Feedback to Sun
at no cost to Sun. Sun may use such Feedback in any manner and for any
purpose, without limitation, liability or obligation to you.

III. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. For purposes of the Evaluation
Agreement, "Confidential Information" means:  (i) business and
technical information and any source code or binary code, which Sun
discloses to Licensee related to Software; (ii) Licensee's feedback
based on Software; and (iii) the terms, conditions, and existence of
this Agreement.  Licensee may not disclose or use Confidential
Information, except for the purposes specified in this Agreement.  You
will protect the Confidential Information with the same degree of
care, but not less than a reasonable degree of care, as Licensee uses
to protect its own Confidential Information. You must restrict access
to Confidential Information to your employees or contractors with a
need for access to perform their employment or contractual obligations
and who have agreed in writing to be bound by a confidentiality
obligation, which incorporates the protections and restrictions
substantially as set forth in this Agreement. Your obligations
regarding Confidential Information will expire no less than five (5)
years from the date of receipt of the Confidential Information, except
for Sun source code which will be protected in perpetuity.  You agree
that Software contains Sun trade secrets. Notwithstanding any
provisions contained in this Agreement concerning nondisclosure and
non-use of the Confidential Information, the nondisclosure obligations
of this section will not apply to any portion of Confidential
Information that you can demonstrate in writing is:  (i) now, or
hereafter through no act or failure to act on the part of you becomes,
generally known to the public; (ii) known to you at the time of
receiving the Confidential Information without an obligation of
confidentiality; (iii) hereafter rightfully furnished to you by a
third party without restriction on disclosure; or (iv) independently
developed by you without any use ofthe Confidential Information.

IV. TERMINATION AND/OR EXPIRATION. Upon expiration of the Evaluation
Period, unless terminated earlier by Sun, you agree to immediately
cease use of and destroy Software.  Either party may terminate this
Evaluation Agreement upon ten (10) days' written notice to the other
party. However, Sun may terminate this Evaluation Agreement
immediately should any Software become, or in Sun's opinion be likely
to become, the subject of a claim of infringement of a patent, trade
secret or copyright. Sun may terminate this Evaluation Agreement
immediately should you materially breach any of its provisions or take
any action in derogation of Sun's rights to the Confidential
Information licensed to you. Upon termination or expiration of this
Evaluation Agreement, you will immediately cease use of and destroy
Software, any copies thereof and provide to Sun? a written statement
certifying that you have complied with the foregoing obligations.
Rights and obligations under this Evaluation Agreement which by their
nature should survive, will remain in effect after termination or
expiration hereof.

V. NO SUPPORT. Sun is under no obligation to support Software or to
provide upgrades or error corrections ("Software Updates") to the
Software. If Sun, at its sole option, supplies Software Updates to
you, the Software Updates will be considered part of Software, and
subject to the terms of this Agreement.

VI. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Licensee acknowledges that the Software
may be experimental and that the Software may have defects or
deficiencies, which cannot or will not be corrected by Sun.  Licensee
will hold Sun harmless from any claims based on Licensee's use of the
Software for any purposes other than those of internal evaluation, and
from any claims that later versions or releases of any Software
furnished to Licensee are incompatible with the Software provided to
Licensee under this Agreement.

VII. NO SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS. The Supplemental Terms following the BCL
do not apply to the Evaluation Agreement. Portions of Software
identified as Early Access in the Software's Release Notes may not be
redistributed even if identified as Redistributable in the Software's
Release Notes.

VIII. Trademarks and Logos. You acknowledge and agree as between you
and Sun that Sun owns the SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and iPLANET
trademarks and all SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and
iPLANET-related trademarks, service marks, logos and other brand
designations ("Sun Marks"), and you agree to comply with the Sun
Trademark and Logo Usage Requirements currently located at
http://www.sun.com/policies/trademarks. Any use you make of the Sun
Marks inures to Sun's benefit.

IX. Source Code. Software may contain source code that is provided
solely for reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Source code may not be redistributed.

X. Third Party Licenses. Additional copyright notices and license
terms applicable to portions of the software are set forth in the
THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME file.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. Binary Code License Agreement

READ THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY PROVIDED SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE
TERMS (COLLECTIVELY "AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY BEFORE OPENING THE SOFTWARE
MEDIA PACKAGE. BY OPENING THE SOFTWARE MEDIA PACKAGE, YOU AGREE TO THE
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE
ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS BY SELECTING
THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE
TO ALL THESE TERMS, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED SOFTWARE TO YOUR PLACE
OF PURCHASE FOR A REFUND OR, IF THE SOFTWARE IS ACCESSED
ELECTRONICALLY, SELECT THE "DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS
AGREEMENT.

1. LICENSE TO USE. Sun grants you a non-exclusive and non-transferable
license for the internal use only of the accompanying software and
documentation and any error corrections provided by Sun (collectively
"Software"), by the number of users and the class of computer hardware
for which the corresponding fee has been paid.

2. RESTRICTIONS. Software is confidential and copyrighted. Title to
Software and all associated intellectual property rights is retained
by Sun and/or its licensors. Except as specifically authorized in any
Supplemental License Terms, you may not make copies of Software, other
than a single copy of Software for archival purposes. Unless
enforcement is prohibited by applicable law, you may not modify,
decompile, or reverse engineer Software. Licensee acknowledges that
Licensed Software is not designed or intended for use in the design,
construction, operation or maintenance of any nuclear facility. Sun
Microsystems, Inc. disclaims any express or implied warranty of
fitness for such uses.  No right, title or interest in or to any
trademark, service mark, logo or trade name of Sun or its licensors is
granted under this Agreement.

3.  LIMITED WARRANTY. Sun warrants to you that for a period of ninety
(90) days from the date of purchase, as evidenced by a copy of the
receipt, the media on which Software is furnished (if any) will be
free of defects in materials and workmanship under normal use. Except
for the foregoing, Software is provided "AS IS". Your exclusive remedy
and Sun's entire liability under this limited warranty will be at
Sun's option to replace Software media or refund the fee paid for
Software.

4. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. UNLESS SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT, ALL
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED, EXCEPT TO THE
EXTENT THAT THESE DISCLAIMERS ARE HELD TO BE LEGALLY INVALID.

5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO
EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT
OR DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF
LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. In no event will Sun's liability to you, whether in contract,
tort (including negligence), or otherwise, exceed the amount paid by
you for Software under this Agreement. The foregoing limitations will
apply even if the above stated warranty fails of its essential
purpose.

6. Termination. This Agreement is effective until terminated. You may
terminate this Agreement at any time by destroying all copies of
Software. This Agreement will terminate immediately without notice
from Sun if you fail to comply with any provision of this Agreement.
Upon Termination, you must destroy all copies of Software.

7.  Export Regulations. All Software and technical data delivered
under this Agreement are subject to US export control laws and may be
subject to export or import regulations in other countries. You agree
to comply strictly with all such laws and regulations and acknowledge
that you have the responsibility to obtain such licenses to export,
re-export, or import as may be required after delivery to you.

8. U.S. Government Restricted Rights. If Software is being acquired by
or on behalf of the U.S. Government or by a U.S. Government prime
contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), then the Government's
rights in Software and accompanying documentation will be only as set
forth in this Agreement; this is in accordance with 48 CFR 227.7201
through 227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense (DOD) acquisitions) and
with 48 CFR 2.101 and 12.212 (for non-DOD acquisitions).

9. Governing Law. Any action related to this Agreement will be
governed by California law and controlling U.S. federal law. No choice
of law rules of any jurisdiction will apply.

10. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable, this Agreement will remain in effect with the provision
omitted, unless omission would frustrate the intent of the parties, in
which case this Agreement will immediately terminate.

11. Integration. This Agreement is the entire agreement between you
and Sun relating to its subject matter. It supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals,
representations and warranties and prevails over any conflicting or
additional terms of any quote, order, acknowledgment, or other
communication between the parties relating to its subject matter
during the term of this Agreement. No modification of this Agreement
will be binding, unless in writing and signed by an authorized
representative of each party.

SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE TERMS

These supplemental license terms ("Supplemental Terms") add to or
modify the terms of the Binary Code License Agreement (collectively,
the "Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined in these Supplemental
Terms shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement.
These Supplemental Terms shall supersede any inconsistent or
conflicting terms in the Agreement, or in any license contained within
the Software.

A. Software Internal Use and Development License Grant. Subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but not limited to
Section C (Java Technology Restrictions) of these Supplemental Terms,
Sun grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license to
reproduce internally and use internally the binary form of the
Software complete and unmodified for the purposes of designing,
developing, testing, and running your Java applets and applications
intended to run on the Java platform ("Programs"), except for certain
files identified in the Software "Release Notes" file which may only
be used for the purposes of designing, developing, and testing
Programs.

B. License to Distribute Redistributables.  Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, including but not limited to Section C
(Java Technology Restrictions) of these Supplemental Terms, Sun grants
you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license to reproduce
and distribute those components specifically identified as
redistributable in the Software "Release Notes" file
("Redistributables") provided that: (i) you distribute the
Redistributables complete and unmodified (unless otherwise specified
in the applicable Release Notes file), and only bundled as part of
your Programs, (ii) you do not distribute additional software intended
to supersede any portion of the Redistributables, (iii) you do not
remove or alter any proprietary legends or notices contained in or on
the Redistributables, (iv) you only distribute the Redistributables
pursuant to a license agreement that protects Sun's interests
consistent with the terms contained in the Agreement, (v) you agree to
defend and indemnify Sun and its licensors from and against any
damages, costs, liabilities, settlement amounts and/or expenses
(including attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with any claim,
lawsuit or action by any third party that arises or results from the
use or distribution of any and all Programs and/or Software, and (vi)
if you distribute the Java Secure Socket Extension package, include
the following statement as part of product documentation (whether hard
copy or electronic), as a part of a copyright page or proprietary
rights notice page, in an "About" box or in any other form reasonably
designed to make the statement visible to users of the Software: "This
product includes code licensed from RSA Data Security".

C. Java Technology Restrictions. You may not modify the Java Platform
Interface ("JPI", identified as classes contained within the "java"
package or any subpackages of the "java" package), by creating
additional classes within the JPI or otherwise causing the addition to
or modification of the classes in the JPI.  In the event that you
create an additional class and associated API(s) which (i) extends the
functionality of the Java platform, and (ii) is exposed to third party
software developers for the purpose of developing additional software
which invokes such additional API, you must promptly publish broadly
an accurate specification for such API for free use by all developers.
You may not create, or authorize your licensees to create, additional
classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way identified as
"java", "javax", "sun" or similar convention as specified by Sun in
any naming convention designation.

D. Java Runtime Availability. Refer to the appropriate version of the
Java Runtime Environment binary code license (currently located at
http://www.java.sun.com/jdk/index.html) for the availability of
runtime code which may be distributed with Java applets and
applications.

E. Trademarks and Logos. You acknowledge and agree as between you and
Sun that Sun owns the SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and iPLANET
trademarks and all SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE, and
iPLANET-related trademarks, service marks, logos and other brand
designations ("Sun Marks"), and you agree to comply with the Sun
Trademark and Logo Usage Requirements currently located at
http://www.sun.com/policies/trademarks. Any use you make of the Sun
Marks inures to Sun's benefit.

F. Source Code. Software may contain source code that is provided
solely for reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Source code may not be redistributed unless expressly provided for in
this Agreement.

G. Third Party Licenses. Additional copyright notices and license
terms applicable to portions of the software are set forth in the
THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME file.

H. Termination for Infringement. Either party may terminate this
Agreement immediately should any Software become, or in either
party'sopinion be likely to become, the subject of a claim of
infringement of any intellectual property right.

For inquiries please contact: Sun Microsystems, Inc. 4150 Network
Circle, Santa Clara, California 95054.

-- 
Jar: ij.jar 
License: Public Domain

-- Jar: 
log4j-1.2.8.jar 
License: Apache 1.1

Copyright (c) 1999 The Apache Software Foundation. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modifica- tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of  source code must  retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if
any, must include  the following  acknowledgment:  "This product
includes  software developed  by the  Apache Software Foundation
(http://www.apache.org/)." Alternately, this  acknowledgment may
appear in the software itself,  if and wherever such third-party
acknowledgments normally appear.

4. The names "log4j" and  "Apache Software Foundation"  must not be
used to endorse  or promote  products derived  from this  software
without  prior written permission. For written permission, please
contact apache@apache.org.

5. Products  derived from this software may not  be called "Apache",
nor may "Apache" appear  in their name,  without prior written
permission  of the Apache Software Foundation.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS  FOR A PARTICULAR  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 IN NO  EVENT SHALL  THE APACHE SOFTWARE  FOUNDATION  OR ITS
CONTRIBUTORS  BE LIABLE FOR  ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES (INCLU- DING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT  OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS  INTERRUPTION)  HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY  THEORY OF LIABILITY,  WHETHER  IN CONTRACT,  STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING  NEGLIGENCE OR  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN  ANY WAY OUT OF
THE  USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

This software  consists of voluntary contributions made  by many
individuals on  behalf of the Apache Software  Foundation.  For more
information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see
<http://www.apache.org/>

-- 
Jar: xdoclet-1.2.2.jar 
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2001-2004 The XDoclet Team. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Jar: axis.jar 
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 2005 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

--
Jar: jdom.jar 
License: Custom

Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin. All rights
reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows these
conditions in the documentation and/or other materials provided with
the distribution.

3. The name "JDOM" must not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without prior written permission.  For
written permission, please contact <request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.

4. Products derived from this software may not be called "JDOM", nor
may "JDOM" appear in their name, without prior written permission from
the JDOM Project Management <request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.

In addition, we request (but do not require) that you include in the
end-user documentation provided with the redistribution and/or in the
software itself an acknowledgement equivalent to the following: "This
product includes software developed by the JDOM Project
(http://www.jdom.org/)." Alternatively, the acknowledgment may be
graphical using the logos available at
http://www.jdom.org/images/logos.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE JDOM AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
individuals on behalf of the JDOM Project and was originally created
by Jason Hunter <jhunter_AT_jdom_DOT_org> and Brett McLaughlin
<brett_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.  For more information on the JDOM Project,
please see <http://www.jdom.org/>.

--sms 
Jar: antlr.jar 
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2005-2009 Terence Parr All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-- 
Jar: icu4j-3.4.4.jar 
License: ICU License

ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright (c) 1995-2012 International Business Machines Corporation and others

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.

-- 
Jar: jena.jar 
License: Custom

Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions
in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution. The name of the author
may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--
Jar: concurrent-1.0.jar
License: Public Domain
http://gee.cs.oswego.edu/dl/classes/EDU/oswego/cs/dl/util/concurrent/intro.html

--
Jar: akarta-oro-2.0.5.jar
License: Apache 2.0

Copyright (c) 2000-2005 The Apache Software Foundation

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

--
Jar: rdf-api-2001-01-19.jar
License: Custom

 Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009
Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions
in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution. The name of the author
may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.


Jena includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation
(http://www.apache.org/).

Jena includes RDF schemes from DCMI:

Portions of this software may use RDF schemas Copyright (c) 2006 DCMI,
the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative. These are licensed under the
Creative Commons 3.0 Attribution license. Jena is built on top of
other sub-systems which we gratefully acknowledge: details of these
systems and their version numbers.

YourKit is kindly supporting open source projects with its
full-featured Java Profiler. YourKit, LLC is the creator of innovative
and intelligent tools for profiling Java and .NET applications. Take a
look at YourKit's leading software products: YourKit Java Profiler and
YourKit .NET Profiler.

--soaplab 
Jar: soaplab.jar, alltools.jar, alltools2.jar 
License: Apache-like

Copyright (c) 2001-2005 Martin Senger and The European Bioinformatics
Institute.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The names "Soaplab" and "AppLab" must not be used to endorse or
promote products derived from this software without prior written
permission. For written permission, please contact senger@ebi.ac.uk
(Martin Senger) or support@ebi.ac.uk.

4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the
Soaplab project (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/soaplab)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE EBI-INDUSTRY GROUP ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPENBSA GROUP OR ITS
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-- Native --
Project: GARP
Files: garp.dll, libgarp.jnilib, libgarp.so, gdal12.dll,
	gdalactor.dll, GISBuffer.dll, GISHull.dll, GISRaster.dll
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2002-2008 The Regents of the University of California. All
rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.


Project: Expat
Files: libexpat.1.dylib, libexpat.dll
License: MIT

Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd
                               and Clark Cooper
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Expat maintainers.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--
Project: Scew
Files: libscew.a
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Aleix Conchillo Flaque

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

--
Project: GDAL
Files: libgdal.1.dylib, libgdal.so, libgdal.so.1, libgdalactor.jnilib,
	libgdalactor.jnilibPPC, libgdalactor.so
License: MIT

Copyright (c) 2000, Frank Warmerdam

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--
Project: GEOS
Files: libgeos.2.dylib, libgeos.so.2, libgeos_c.1.dylib
License: LGPL 2.1

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Vivid Solutions Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 2006 Refractions Research Inc.

For License Terms See: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html

--
Project: Java Advanced Imaging Image I/O Tools
Files: clib_jiio.dll, libclib_jiio.so
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc., 4150 Network Circle, Santa 
Clara, California 95054, U.S.A. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Project: PROJ.4
Files: proj.dll, libproj.0.dylib, libproj.so
License: MIT

Copyright (c) 2000, Frank Warmerdam

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--
Project: Ptolemy-Matlab
Files: libptmatlab.jnilib, ptmatlab.dll, ptmatlab64.dll, libptmatlab.so, libptmatlab64.so
License: BSD

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 The Regents of the University of California. All
rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all
copies of this software.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

--
Project: slf4j
Files: slf4j-api-1.6.2.jar, slf4j-log4j12-1.6.2.jar
From: http://www.slf4j.org/download.html
License: MIT

Copyright (c) 2004-2008 QOS.ch
All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free  of charge, to any person obtaining
a  copy  of this  software  and  associated  documentation files  (the
"Software"), to  deal in  the Software without  restriction, including
without limitation  the rights to  use, copy, modify,  merge, publish,
distribute,  sublicense, and/or sell  copies of  the Software,  and to
permit persons to whom the Software  is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:
          
The  above  copyright  notice  and  this permission  notice  shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
             
THE  SOFTWARE IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS", WITHOUT  WARRANTY  OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT LIMITED  TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY,    FITNESS    FOR    A   PARTICULAR PURPOSE    AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
